Look at my screen right now. My hands
are off the keyboard, but this AI is
autonomously writing a Python script,
debugging it, and building a working app
right before your eyes. This is not
ChatGPT, and the craziest part is I am
not paying a single cent for it. No
subscriptions, no API keys, zero cloud
limits. This is a fully autonomous AI
running 100% locally on my hardware for
free. [music] What is going on, guys? A
turd here. Welcome to E Smile AI. Today,
I will show you the ultimate zero-cost
setup using Open Claw and Ollama, so you
can build your own tireless AI employee.
Do not skip around because we are giving
an AI system access, and then I will
show you a critical security setting
later to keep your PC safe. Drop a quick
like, hit subscribe, and let us dive
straight into step one, which is giving
our new AI a brain. We need to run
powerful language models offline, and
the best way is a free software called
Ollama. Open your web browser and go to
ollama.com.
Right on the home page, you'll see a
massive download button. Click that and
grab the installer for Windows, Mac, or
Linux. The installation is super simple.
Just open the downloaded file, click
next, and let it finish. Once Ollama is
installed, we need to download the
actual AI model. Open your terminal
application. If you're not a developer,
do not panic. You only need to copy and
paste one single line of text. I put
these exact commands in the pinned
comment below, so you can just copy
them. If you have a high-end PC or a
newer Mac with an M-series chip and at
least 16 GB of RAM, you want the most
powerful brain. Type Ollama pull Qwen 3B
colon 32B and hit enter. This
32-billion-parameter
model is an absolute monster at logical
reasoning and writing complex code
autonomously. But, if you're using a
normal laptop with 8 GB of RAM, do not
worry. Type Ollama pull llama 3.2 colon
8B and press enter. This
8-billion-parameter model is incredibly
fast and designed to run smoothly on
standard hardware without making your
computer crash. Once you hit enter,
you'll see a progress bar downloading
the AI model directly to your machine.
Since these files are large, it might
take a couple of minutes. Just let it
run in the background. Once it hits
100%, your AI brain is ready to start
thinking. But, a brain cannot do much
without hands to execute tasks, and that
brings us to step two, installing the
Open Claw framework. Usually, getting an
autonomous AI to control your computer
requires complex Python environments and
endless dependencies. But today, we are
bypassing all of that headache with a
brand new automated installation method.
If you are on a Mac or Linux, simply
paste this single command into your
terminal. Curl -fssl
https://openclaw.ai/install.sh
pipe bash. I left this exact command in
the pinned comment below, so you can
just copy and paste it without typing
anything. This automatic script handles
all the boring background stuff like
installing Node.js, so you do not have
to lift a single finger. For Windows
users, the process is just as easy.
Download the Windows installer from the
Open Claw GitHub page. Run it, and it
will set up everything automatically.
Now for step three, the magic
connection. This is where everything
comes together. Your local Ollama brain
needs to talk to your new Open Claw
hands. Inside your terminal, clear the
screen so it is easy to read, and type
exactly this. Ollama launch Open Claw.
Hit enter and watch the magic happen.
This single command automatically links
your local Ollama models directly to
Open Claw and instantly launches the
user interface right in your web
browser. There are no API keys required,
no credit cards, and absolutely no login
screens. You are now officially running
your own autonomous agent. But, pay
close attention right now because this
is the critical step four I warned you
about earlier, the security settings.
Before you tell your new AI to go build
you a full website or write a Python
script, we need to lock down your
system. Go into your Open Claw dashboard
and click on the settings gear icon.
Navigate over to the tool permissions
tab. You need to find the execute shell
commands. Right now, it is set to auto
run. You absolutely must change this to
ask. This ensures the AI has to ask for
your manual permission before it runs
any code on your computer, preventing it
from accidentally deleting important
files or doing anything you do not want.
Next up, to make this a completely
unhackable and fully offline setup,
scroll down to the web search tool
toggle and click it to disable it. Now,
everything stays strictly on your local
machine, and your private data remains
yours alone. And there you have it,
guys. You just saved yourself hundreds
of dollars a year and built a massively
powerful local AI agent safely. If this
step-by-step tutorial brought you value,
smash that subscribe button, drop a
like, and share this video with your
friends. Check the pinned comment for
all the commands we used today. Let me
know in the comments what crazy projects
you're going to build with Open Claw,
and I'll catch you guys in the next one.